Snapshot process details docs improvements (#70012)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/snapshot-restore/take-snapshot.asciidoc

[discrete]
[[create-snapshot-process-details]]
=== Snapshot process details

The snapshot process works by taking a byte-for-byte copy of the files that
make up each index or data stream and placing these copies in the repository.
These files are mostly written by Lucene and contain a compact representation
of all the data in each index or data stream in a form that is designed to be
searched efficiently. This means that when you restore an index or data stream
from a snapshot there is no need to rebuild these search-focussed data

> structures, and also means that you can <<searchable-snapshots,search data in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
structures. It also means that you can <<searchable-snapshots,search data in
```

Author: :+1: see ef61a6d0477.

> the repository without restoring it first>>.

Reviewer: We may want to explicitly mention searchable snapshots or mounting a snapshot here. The current text implies that the user can run a search on their entire repository, which isn't exactly the case.

Author: :+1: see bf7243c93c1b327782744a408d359f42b101dd71.

The snapshot process is incremental: {es} compares the files that make up the

> index or data stream against the files that already exist in the repository,
> and copies to the repository only those files that were created or changed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
index or data stream against the files that already exist in the repository
and only copies files that were created or changed
```

> since the last snapshot. Snapshots are very space-efficient since they re-use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
since the last snapshot. Snapshots are very space-efficient since they reuse
```

any files copied to the repository by earlier snapshots.

Snapshotting does not interfere with ongoing indexing or searching operations.
A snapshot captures a view of each shard at some point in time between the

> start and end of the snapshotting process, so documents that are added to the
> data stream or index after the snapshot process was started may not be included
> in the snapshot.

Reviewer: I'd break this into two sentences.
```suggestion
start and end of the snapshotting process. The snapshot may not include
documents added to a data stream or index after the snapshot process starts.
```

> You can start multiple snapshot operations at the same time, up to the limit
> specified by the cluster setting `snapshot.max_concurrent_operations` which
> defaults to `1000`. This limit applies in total to all ongoing snapshot

Reviewer: I'd break this into a couple of sentences.
```suggestion
You can start multiple snapshot operations at the same time. Concurrent snapshot
operations are limited by the `snapshot.max_concurrent_operations` cluster
setting, which defaults to `1000`. This limit applies in total to all ongoing snapshot
```

creation, cloning, and deletion operations. {es} will reject any operations
that would exceed this limit.

The snapshot process starts immediately for the primary shards that have been
started and are not relocating at the moment. {es} waits for relocation or
initialization of shards to complete before snapshotting them.

Besides creating a copy of each data stream and index, the snapshot process can
also store global cluster metadata, which includes persistent cluster settings,
templates, and data stored in system indices, such as Watches and task records,
regardless of whether those system indices are named in the `indices` section

> of the request. The <<create-snapshot-api-feature-states,`feature_states`
> field>> can be used to select a subset of system indices to be included in the
> snapshot. The transient settings and registered snapshot repositories are not
> stored as part of the snapshot.

Reviewer: I'd switch to active voice and explicitly mention the API.
```suggestion
of the request. You can also use the create snapshot
API's <<create-snapshot-api-feature-states,`feature_states`>> parameter to
include only a subset of system indices in the snapshot. Snapshots do not
store transient settings or registered snapshot repositories.
```

Author: Thanks, seems reasonable; this paragraph is otherwise unchanged (apart from formatting).

> While a snapshot of a particular shard is being created, this shard cannot be

Reviewer: Nit: the article here felt a little off.
```suggestion
While a snapshot of a particular shard is being created, the shard cannot be
```

moved to another node, which can interfere with rebalancing and allocation

> filtering. {es} can only move a shard to another node (according to the current

Reviewer: ```suggestion
filtering. {es} can only move the shard to another node (according to the current
```

allocation filtering settings and rebalancing algorithm) after the snapshot
process is finished.

You can use the <<get-snapshot-api,Get snapshot API>> to retrieve information
about ongoing and completed snapshots. See

> <<snapshots-monitor-snapshot-restore,Monitor snapshot and restore progress>> to
> learn more about retrieving snapshot status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<<snapshots-monitor-snapshot-restore,Monitor snapshot and restore progress>>.
```
